today I've got one of the strongest
athletes on my team coming in here to
squat his name is Ree Keane and he can
squat 415 kg in the 140 kg class except
he's injured and today he's coming in to
refine his technique we're not that
strong at the moment because he's been
injured but now we're working towards
today the goal is going to be what 280
kilos uh for some sets of four
so this is not as heavy as he has been
absolutely not but when you have an
injury it's hard to squat that heavy so
what we're going to do is refine his
technique we're going to go step by step
have a look at all of his warm-up sets
and the procedures that it takes to
squat at a level like that but the
beauty is even if you're not as strong
as him which you're probably not you're
going to gain from this as well so the
techniques that we use at the highest
level applies to everyone underneath so
stay tuned hopefully we get to 280 kg
for two sets of four unless of course
he's injured and then we do nothing at
all is what it is but we're going to
start
warming up shortly we'll just Chuck on
uh we'll Chuck on 25
Kil I think it's even more I think
that's about a it could be even a 30
kilo bar we might weigh
it
okay6 26 26 kilos let's have a look so
this is ree's first set of the barbell
he did a whole bunch of warming up uh
that he's done before this so let's
check it out he's got a CED bar uh that
helps save his shoulders a lot of big
strong bench presses have have very
immobile shoulders so that bar helps
with this so let's have a look at a few
things look at the speed that he's going
down he's not going so fast uh and
that's what you see typically for a lot
of elite level lifters it's 75
Kg but he's respecting it like he's
going to respect his top weight he's not
just pumping up and down just because
it's a warm-up
weight something that I like to teach
with all of my high level lifts is treat
the warm-up weights exactly like you're
going to treat your top sets so uh 75 Kg
he's going to go up in 50 kilo jumps
yeah we go I'm going do one more set
here do one more set get the body moving
how many reps was that five five reps
he'll do two sets of five and then we'll
start going up and slowly reducing the
Reps up until we get to 80 kg for four
hey check this out so this is the monol
lift so there's a difference between a
lot of the squats that most gym go use
where they unrack it and they walk out
of the rack and they do their squats in
a lot of high level powerlifting
competition uh this is what you might
see so the monolift is where you can get
in your squat position from where you
unrack and you just stand there and
instead of having to walk out I will
swing you'll see when we go in real time
I'll swing the racks back so he doesn't
have to walk out uh really really handy
especially with these super heavyweight
lifters when they're getting to Big
squats uh as I said his uh best Squad is
415 kg of course he'd be able to walk it
out but it's just a lot harder uh so
this way oh man when we're squatting
that much weight in training it's very
stressful it's a big ordeal and and that
saves a lot of hassle when we when we
use the monolift so uh stay tuned and
I'll show you how do we how we use that
in real time he uses a low bar squat he
sits look at his deltoids that's where
the barbell has to sit uh that's a low
bar squat look at his stance uh let's
have a look at everything that he's
doing his stance is a moderate stance um
I think it looks good actually when he
was squatting his heaviest he was
probably going a little bit wider than
that but that might change as we get
warmer and warmer uh look at his depth
crease of the hip below the top of the
knee but when we wrap his knees it's
going to be harder to achieve that
depth controls the way down and stands
up explosively but still under control a
lot of people um talk about concentric
portion or the up phase of every lift
you get the most uh gains with muscle
mass uh so like motor unit recruitment
you may have heard those words before
when you move as fast as possible the
problem with high level lifting is if
you do that a lot of the times you can
lose the technique you can lose the
tension so it interferes with lifting
the right way so I always say uh come
down under control so slow and
controlled maintaining tension and up as
fast as you can while still maintaining
control uh so that's what you're going
to see the whole way up so next up so
that's uh 75 Kg we're going to go 125
125 and I'm going to show you how we use
the mono so now obviously he can walk
out with it but something that I like
doing is warming up on the light weights
uh with all the equipment so we get used
to the technique from the
start three
reps controls the way down stands up
with intent explosive but still under
control
[Applause]
good one feels right feels good yeah it
looks
good um so a few of the things that I'm
looking for is alignment so everyone's
stance is different some people stand
with a wide stance some people close uh
it's it's Unique to the individual
everyone has a different hip structure
and and different levels of strength so
typically if you stand wider it
strengthens more your adductors so your
inner thigh muscles um the people with a
closer stance you'll see typically have
bigger quadriceps so everyone's unique
with that so um what I look for I don't
care it's like whatever you're
comfortable with what I look for is are
you able to achieve depth comfortably
that's very comfortable that depth um
and are we stacked so what does stacked
mean I want to see his foot in line with
his knee in line with his hip I want to
see straight line so sometimes you see a
thing called valgus knees which is the
knees knocking in um I don't want that
to happen because it's not as strong um
the strongest structure is is stacked
and and that's what we're going for the
whole time so you might hear cu's like
knees out um that's only if the knees
are coming in I don't want the knees out
like this that's not what I want that's
out of alignment as well I want in line
and I'll use the queue knees out if the
knees are coming in but otherwise I
don't need to Quee it at all if he's
stacked which is what he is I don't say
a word that's a big overused one knees
out I'm guilty of it as well yeah well
the thing is you got to use it when you
need it right I think it's just overuse
people just scream it and then people
just without any intent they just this
but they're not gripping the floor
properly yeah that's that's a really
good point um and I think that they get
that from like watching people like us
you know they might they might hear us
screaming at each other and they'll go
oh that must be the queue um but the
only reason why we'll use it is we know
what we're doing right as context we
have a more detailed plan they're
hearing two words cues are meant to be
short and sweet but there's more to it
than that hey why don't you tell us what
your think thinking about with your feet
why don't you tell well I guess what's
important for me when I'm starting to
squat I'm standing close not because
you're using my mic for this I don't
want to stand as close for no reason
it's just I like to think of it as
gripping the floor as if you got like a
claw right and your cor screwing
externally rotating trying to spread the
floor apart and you create that tension
from the ground so the external rotation
comes from the floor and then everything
sort of follows suit if you just say
knees out I think you missed that first
part so you got no base and then it's
like kind of pointless right it's wobbly
it's not tight so if you saw the the
inside of his foot lifted then so you
don't want that to happen so feet
gripping the floor screwing into the
floor like externally rotating into the
floor and then foot in line with knee in
line with hip and then go as deep as you
can absolutely while still maintaining a
neutral spine position so when I say as
deep as you can don't just go ask the
grass for the sake of it uh as deep as
you can while still maintaining tension
at the bottom that's a lot to go lot a
lot to think about a lot to put together
at once but break it down the smaller
parts keep it simple yeah yeah so so we
we break it down a lot and talk about it
a lot while we're warming up but then
when we get to the top sets you don't
want to be doing that no thinking you
just go you just scream you just scream
scream and go go you idiot absolutely go
[__] lifted yeah pretty much check
this out so I'm going to give you a
crash course on wrapping knes um knee
wraps don't protect your knees in Squad
competition they allow you to lift a
heavier weight and it's part of the
sport so that's why we get used to it so
if you've got bad knees I don't think
that's going to fix it in any way in
fact that can actually cause injury if
you do it wrong so the way that we like
to do it is we start with a A Gentle
knee wrap and then every set we go
gradually Tighter and Tighter the
tighter you go The More Bounce you're
going to get out of the knee wrap so I
don't need a lot of Bounce here um but
what you're going to see is is my
technique so I I start with the wrap
pre-rolled and I don't tension it I just
roll it Loosely cuz when it's tensioned
I find it's got a big risk of slipping
out of my hands which I don't like some
people do like it pre- tension but I I
don't I just find that's the most
comfortable way of doing it uh the next
thing here's a little tip for you I like
to wet my
hands that gives you grip a lot of
people use chalk because chalk and grip
but for me bit of water so I start with
this the center the center of this in
line
with the the bottom of his kneecap so
the bottom of of his patella so that's
the dead center there okay first
Revolution is is pretty tight and now
we're anchored in okay so half the Rev
each half the thickness of the of the
wrap each Revolution up so that's that's
four
revolutions and then just one around so
there's nothing fancy here that's the
first
wrap nothing fancy that's very loose
actually and if you're a beginner and
learning how to wrap your knees that's
probably how I would teach you if you go
super tight because you see your
favorite lifter going super tight uh
it's going to be uncomfortable and
you're it's going to
interfere with your ability to to squat
because it hurts too
much feels
good definitely important to have the
consistent tension I find as well so now
uh how many reps here let's just goles
man
sweet so we did 100 so we did 75 for two
sets of five and then we did 125 for a
set of three and now it's going to be
one one one one all the way up to the
top Set uh and how many minutes rest in
between we haven't really stopped we've
just kind of keep on kept on going but
then we'll get there as we go heavier
right
yeah minutes between today for thep when
when we get heavy so so if you're doing
280 for the top set what are you going
to do the set before um
265 265 and then we'll rest about 8
minutes and then we'll go yeah nice one
all right one rep
[Applause]
[Music]
[__] oh now what
a yeah sometimes things happen you got
to be prepared lucky was on the warm up
set so if you saw that little glitch
this uh is a safety rope are you going
to use these on the top weights you
prefer not to have them I mean at Le
they set up all the way down but that's
mine I really care well that's how it
would be Jesus maybe's not Jesus is here
Jesus is with us everywhere that's why
yeah we can use that all right so that
was set up incorrectly uh but that won't
happen again so if he dumps this uh it's
going to fall here this is very strong
this can tow a truck right so if he
dumps that what we're going to have on
his top SE uh probably just me spotting
maybe we'll get someone else maybe we'll
get some of the the boys if he was going
super super heavy we'd be like me behind
him and then someone on on the end of
each when he's squatting 400 kg and plus
would have two people on the end so one
one person
here one person on the
plate and then one person behind and
then two two on the other side same way
and then one person unracking um so
that's uh six people
and then you recording and then her
recording eight people and then him
lifting there's nine people to get a
squad out big dealo it's a big [__]
day it's an ordal it is an ordeal
stressful [__] yeah and it takes some
time as well if we're doing 8 minutes
rest between sets uh you'll probably see
once we get to the top set it'll
probably be about 45 to an hour in after
all the warmups and that's only for a
280 kilo session and you'll get through
your two working sets of squads and then
you've literally done a quarter of your
session need to eat we come back later
it's the best way to do it yeah so so
that's a lot of the times uh when when
EAS training it takes so long to get to
the top sets and actually it's
exhausting and 2 hours goes and then
you're hungry so he'll typically do the
top sets eat go home and then uh and
then train in the afternoon his PM
session train at a high level you yeah
if you want to train at a high level you
got to do your accessories and you got
to have fuel for that so yeah
good one all right four
Reds so that was five we'll go
six and then
seven
okay it's pretty uh loose I was dring
eights for my heav yeah I'll tell you my
thought I don't know if I'll he'll do it
because this is something I don't
consider a deal breaker uh and I guess
he's used to it and it looks fantastic
but he's looking down when he squats the
body follows the eyes so if you look
down uh it's going to allow your torso
to tip forward naturally which is if you
have a look at how he squats his his
torso tips forward naturally which is
fine it's good he's got a strong back
he's got strong hips but he's also got
an injury in one of his adductors the
adductor is a hip extensor so your
movement so we're kind of discussing the
The Stance width so the wider you go the
more adductors uh but actually the more
hips you use the more adductors as
well so so one solution I'm not sure if
he's going to be open to it I'm open to
it I i' I've played around with it a
little bit and I found a contradictory
to to that cuz I agree with you yeah I
found that by staying more upright
forcing more exteral rotation to H
myself upright rotation in your hips
yeah was causing me discomfort good in
the adductor but that was a little while
ago yeah so maybe for this one I'll give
I'll just try and adjust my head a
little bit a little less lean well
that's all the reason why I thought that
that is because um I asked him how many
revolutions I should do for his knee
wraps and he said seven I haven't been
going tight which means he hasn't been
going tight which means he's not getting
a lot out of the knee wraps he doesn't
need to get a lot out of the knee wraps
because he's a very hip dominant
squatter when I want to use more knee
wraps I want to be more upright and push
the knees so the more upright you are
the more the knees need to push in uh
the more you're looking down the more
the hips come back and you don't get as
much out of the knee wraps so that's the
trade-off um yeah so but you've got
strong hips I want to do this one how
you set up yeah let's give it a try so
what we're going to try next is if you
notice what he did before uh he looked
slightly down and it's a really nice
squat especially if you do it raw but to
get the most out of the knee wraps you
want to push the knees into the wraps
the best way to push the knees into the
wraps is to be more upright with the
Torso the best way to be more upright is
to look straight ahead we'll give it a
try it's been a while since I've had
strong hands on
me nice
take it seriously please I
am
okay
[Music]
okay so that was slightly tighter six
revolutions the set before was five the
next one will be one tighter than that
so the queue is look straight ahead
looking straight ahead is going to allow
more upright torso to be more upright
the knees need to push into the wraps so
that's what I'd like you to focus on is
just allowing the first movement is not
to let the hips come back but rather to
let the knees come forward let them rest
inside the wraps
[Applause]
still down a bit yeah still in the same
spot pretty
much it feels like yeah it's here but
then I go down I need to adjust cuz when
standing up at it straight then I'm
going down than it's here yeah so maybe
I need to look up slightly and then as I
come down it will adjust maybe I think
it's interesting to see like we'll do a
zoom in on his face on the top sets yeah
yeah cuz that's what happens the body
naturally goes where it wants to go and
I find that a lot of people that warm up
that way with their heads down and when
they get to the top we they kind of go
yeah to help them get up so for me I
don't like to move um the only things
that I say whenever you're doing a big
lift nothing moves except for the knees
and the hips that's all I want
everything else to be still I don't want
to see his beard waving around I want to
see that is still completely still and
that's it so when you see people go uh
you know head down head up
it's very minute it's like what does
that millimeter matter does it matter
that much I don't know but I don't want
it to happen for me if I can improve it
by a millimeter that's what I'm going to
do and that's what I like to have so so
have a look at that we'll have a look at
his top weight to see what his head
naturally does and then that's feedback
for these warm-up sets next session as
well it's like what your head naturally
does in your top sets that's what you
should do on your next warmup
set seven ribs seven rivs seven ribs and
it's a nice tight s ribs yeah I'll be
able to get
eight well we'll see how that feels
anyway give me feedback after this
come
on let's go bro last warm
up yep good let's
go
nice
yep so I felt like I had no proppr
reception yeah no idea where that's that
is the problem with introducing it at
that weight you look like it as well
yeah
like up I like yeah yeah maybe
I'll MD yeah it didn't look good no it
didn't feel good no it felt disjointed
yeah didn't feel like everything was
together yeah well anyway that's like
the que is not going to work now yeah
you know what I mean so it's like it's a
shame but anyway whatever maybe next
time yeah so the way that I would do it
next time is get you started on it on
set one yeah you know what I mean so
right now going on the heavyweight so
what what just happened now so he's used
to um he's refined he's like well oil
that's what he's been used to um so we
tried to use that Q on an early set 175
and it or was it 225 on 225 which I
still think is maybe a little bit too
late he didn't quite do it he still
looked down so then we get to 265 which
is his last warm-up set new Q late in
the session that's not a good way of
doing it so we've learned right now that
silly we just lock it in back to normal
yeah back to normal how was the lower
body looking not not good so that [__]
you so if you have a look at what
happened your knees came in then okay
yeah it felt like it just felt like I
didn't know yeah so you lost all it
looked like it looked quite loose yeah
and you didn't bounce out of the hole
yeah it looked like you had to push out
of the hole and these weights for you um
typically with Reese when he's squatting
heavy it kind of goes tight and then
just goes like this on on this type of
weight for him it stands up like it does
with with only one plate so one plate
two plates 280 for him should just go
control and then pop then he wasn't
using wraps he was just pushing a little
bit of loss of tension because of the
way that you were looking anyway what it
is we'll go back
to I I feel it's a bit of a mistake with
the warm-ups now it's a bit of a wasted
warm
up are you happy to go to 280 I have
tried I'm happy
see the thing is I've done the that in
the Walnut before sure I had it early on
even was as it got heavier I felt more
and more disjointed like my head wasn't
touched my body therefore I didn't feel
like I was getting tight in my back I
felt it hard to link everything together
I felt like just for me by bringing my
head down it kept me all like brace the
way that you're used to bracing of
course of course I I'll tell you now I
know it's energy consum yeah but I
reckon the better way to do it would be
to repeat that okay do it again let's do
that one more at 265 so we're just going
to go back to his his way um because I
don't want you coming into 280 while
we're trying to fix a pain and go the
last warm up was a waste keep it slow
right don't bash it
hard tension tension tension
let's
go tight tight tight control
control yes come in come in
yep yeah definitely better definitely
better so so one thing that I that I see
with you that I I know it's because of
the bar the camber bar is upper back
tension man it's like the first thing
that happens here is you go here and
then you go boom bo you know what I mean
that's folding in the back because your
hands are wide here that's what I love
about the straight bar this is looser on
your shoulders better on your shoulders
but you lose tension so with a straight
bar it's tight on your shoulders but but
tight equals strong so bring my hands
bring the the racks in more yeah so you
can put your hands on the inside of that
may yeah good one and then and then try
and squeeze your hands in in a touch so
we can squeeze your upper back harder
cuz that's another example of the things
that I don't like to see moving so your
elbows just went just it was just a
little bit but if that happened on 265
it's going to happen more on the
280 2 kg plates seems silly but it's a
26 KG Bar that's
276 kg right there now it's
280 um you know you're pushing it into
the thing
yep yep that's better yeah so this is an
interesting cue his hands as close as
shoulder Mobility allows um that can be
misinterpreted I don't mean just as
close as you can go for him his
shoulders won't allow him to go super
close uh same with me but it's just a
little bit closer so what that does
is the more your hands are further out
the more your shoulder blades come out
and you're loosening your upper back the
more we bring our hands in the more
we're squeezing our shoulder blades
together when you squeeze your shoulder
blades together it makes it very hard to
fold in the upper back so that's what he
did out of the 265 was just a little bit
of that it was such a small amount if
you look close and rewind on the video
you might see his elbows go just a small
amount I don't want that to happen I
want it to stay like a rock so think of
it like this 265 if that happens what's
going to happen when he gets to 420 I
don't care about 46 265 I care about
making this perfect so when he time
comes to 420 he he's doing it right when
he does 420 k
you can't have those deviations happen
it needs to be perfect or it's not
coming
up okay
okay
Four Strong back
move to the right just a little bit okay
good good good good good strong
back let's
go yes
nice strong strong back [__] yes
easy stay
tight easy last one [__] yes last one
strong back yes nice work yep yep yep uh
yep you're in you're in you're in good
[__] the r was sticky but that was
strong man that fire yeah it was high
bar bro it was yeah yeah man so we have
to change the racks again what a [__]
around but that was strong for what you
did
yeah that was definitely High what a
strange thing
um it's low bar of course it was sitting
on his Rears he sitting on his rear
delts we we'll come and see it in a
moment but for where he needs to be it
needs to be about this much like he
probably like an inch higher than where
you normally are yeah quite a bit yeah
which tips him
forward but your elbows were were stuck
there was none of that stuff wasn't
pitching them yeah so I still think that
the the racks were too too far out like
we can't have your hands in that close
so we need to take two to perfect that
even more if we get that bar in the
right position if that came up like that
now um I bet you it'll be even stronger
next um we said 8 minutes I reckon 10
yeah
10 yeah we'll be back we'll be back
because go to here cuz it's just your
shoulders that I need to fit in there so
go to about
there yep
okay yeah this is a feature on the rack
that most commercial gyms don't have
it's the ability to bring the racks in
or out so what we tried to do with Rees
to to increase his upper back tension is
bring his hands in to do that we had to
take the racks out which is pretty much
equivalent to what most gyms have gyms
usually have just racks out they have
one setting but that was too tight so he
couldn't get it that was too tight for
his shoulder Mobility which is why the
bar ended up being in a higher position
than normal which is a lot weaker so
what we did is we went back to the first
plan which is racks in which is what he
normally is but we moved the racks in a
little bit further so that he can bring
his hands in still a little bit tighter
than a little bit closer than what he
was when he was warming up but not as
close as his last set so hopefully it's
in the right position that's going to
allow him to get the bar where it should
be in the low bar position as well as
increase his upper back tension so
hopefully we learned from the mistake of
the last set um and this set although
it's the same
way it should be the strongest set of
the day six minutes already U maybe
about another four more minutes till I
start rapping or 3 minutes till I start
wrapping something that I like to to say
with with rest periods everyone's
different the stronger you get the
longer the rest uh the next thing um
pyup you hear me screaming at his last
set um and probably if you go back
you'll hear me my volume getting a
little bit louder and louder as we get
to the top sets everyone's different
with this but typically um I don't like
to shout so much on your warm-up set
there's no point doing any of that stuff
uh it's pretty exhausting and all of
this stuff is really exhausting so that
last set was was a tough set for Rees
and what we want to do is sit out and
rest and drop the heart rate and and
just completely relax um you're probably
going to start seeing I want him to stay
relaxed as I'm wrapping his knees a
little bit more focused but then as he
comes in that's when we're going to
start screaming and that's when we're
going to start switching on um
everyone's got different levels of kind
of like neural arousal that they can
reach high level lifters I don't know
what you call it it's that switch that
you got they know how to turn it on um
so it's exhausting that part so so that
level of neural arousal if he stays
there for a long time he'll be very
exhausted and it'll be counterproductive
for a good session so what we got to do
is relax as much as possible but then
when we get up to the top set he's
trying to stay calm as I'm wrapping his
knees CU that takes a few minutes but
then as he gets here as he's wrapping
his wrist and putting the belt on uh
that's when we start getting intense
that's when you might hear me start
screaming he'll probably start screaming
at
[Music]
himself we're getting ready for our
second set now 280 first set was
okay still something to be desired
though so we're going
to let's get the perfect bar position
strong
back let's
go let's go bro come
on easy yes
re let's
go let's go move to the right just a
little bit move to the right more that's
left yes good squeeze that back hard
that's perfect
strong back let's go take your time take
your time let's go control control
control yes easy let's go again control
control yeah let's go two more strong
back strong back strong back easy last
one take your time strong back strong
back easy [__] Earth that's how
that's how all right
right smoked it man way better bro that
felt nice yeah got it right I'm making
it feel hard obviously trying to create
possible yeah but the way itself feels
pretty good just take my time pushing
into the hole not cutting it not trying
to bounce but trying to stay tight
tension tension tension exactly if you
rewind that first rep yeah uh that flew
yeah it was like it's it's deceiving cuz
you're going down really slow in control
then it just goes boom yeah kind through
the bar a little bit nice but uh I'm
happy with that that's a better way to
finish because could go another
way yeah but at the same time um I hate
this bar it sucks sucks yeah it makes it
uh you lose tension in the upper back it
might be a little bit more comfortable
for your shoulders but it's looser
looser is weaker and that's where it was
a little bit of a a mess around with the
grip and everything like that which we
got there in the end um 280 it's the
nice weight for him we're just getting
started so errors are to be made early
in the the prep which is kind of now but
we don't want to make any mistakes so
later on so if we come back for a few
more sessions we we've learned a lot
from this session so um 280 for 2x4 that
was probably about an hour and a half uh
and he's exhausted and so that's that's
it for today um hope you enjoyed the
session reys gone subscribe on what's
your strength baby Colt strength your
mom's favorite Channel on YouTube don't
you know and you'll see his lifting
Journey he's a very strong boy so go
give him a subscribe thank you sir thank
you man